>> Woodruff: THE U.S. AND RUSSIA
BOTH LEVIED NEW SANCTIONS ON
EACH OTHER, IN A TIT-FOR-TAT
OVER MOSCOW'S CLAIM TO CRIMEA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS THURSDAY:
SATELLITE IMAGES OF DEBRIS SHIFT
THE SEARCH FOR THE MISSING
MALAYSIAN JETLINER TO A REMOTE
STREH OFTC THE INDIAN OCEAN.
>> Woodruff: PLUS, THE START-UPS
TAKING ON AGING, BUILDING NEW
HI-TECH TOOLS AND REDESIGNING
SOME LOW-TECH ONES TO HELP
SENIORS AND THEIR CAREGIVERS.
>> FOR MY DAD THIS MORNING I CAN
SEE HE IS EATING AND DRINKING,
HAS BEEN GETTING OUT OF THE
HOUSE.
BUT I NOTICED FOMEDIR CATIONS
THE FACE IS NOT GREEN, IT'S
ACTUALLY RED.
AND WHAT MEANS IS HE MISSED THE
TIME HE'S SUPPOSED TO TAKE IT.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S PBS
NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: RUSSIA AND THE WEST
STAYED LOCKED IN A STARE-DOWN
TODAY, AS THE CRISIS OVER
UKRAINE CONTINUED TO BUILD.
ANNOUNCEMENTS OF SANCTIONS FLEW
BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN
WASHINGTON AND MOSCOW.
AND IN CRIMEA, THE RUSSIANS
INTENSIFIED THEIR PRESSURE ON
UKRAINE'S MILITARY.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THIS DAY HAS SEEN A NEW FLURRY
SEARCH FOR A MISSING MALAYSIAN
AIRLINER.
THE NEW FOCUS: AN AREA IN THE
SOUTHERN INDIAN OCEAN.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JONATHAN
RUGMAN OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> Reporter: THIS MORNING,
AUSTRALIAN AND AMERICAN
SURVEILLANCE PLANES SET OUT IN
SEARCH OF THE REMAINS OF FLIGHT
370 AFTER SATELLITE IMAGERY
PINPOINTED POSSIBLE DEBRIS
FLOATING BELOW.
THEY DROPPED YELLOW MARKER BUOYS
OVER THE SPOT.
THEY'RE DESIGNED TO RECORD THE
OCEAN'S DRIFTING CURRENTS AND SO
DETECT WHERE THAT DEBRIS MIGHT
DRIFT NEXT.
BUT CLOUDS PREVENTED ANY
GLIMPSE.
ONE PLANE SPOTTED ONLY TWO
PASSING PODS OF DOLPHINS AND A
FREIGHTER.
THAT SHIP, A NORWEGIAN CAR
TRANSPORTER, WAS DIVERTED FROM
ITS COURSE TO INVESTIGATE BUT
ITS FILIPINO CREW HAVE SEEN
NOTHING SO FAR.
A SATELLITE RECORDED TWO
OBJECTS.
THIS ONE THOUGHT TO BE UP TO 24
METERS LONG, THOUGH AFTER SO
MANY FALSE LEADS, CAUTION IS THE
ORDER OF THE DAY.
>> THIS IS A LEAD.
IT IS PROBABLY THE BEST LEAD WE
HAVE RIGHT NOW.
BUT WE NEED TO GET THERE, FIND
THEM, SEE THEM, ASSESS THEM TO
KNOW WHETHER IT'S REALLY
MEANINGFUL OR NOT.
AND I CAUTION AGAIN, THEY'LL BE
DIFFICULT TO FIND.
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT
SATELLITE SAW UNTIL WE CAN GET A
MUCH BETTER, MUCH CLOSER LOOK AT
IT.
BUT THIS IS THE FIRST TANGIBLE
BREAKTHROUGH IN WHAT UP TILL NOW
HAS BEEN AN UTTERLY BAFFLING
MYSTERY.
>> Reporter: FLIGHT MH370 LEFT
KUALA LUMPUR AT 12:41 AM HEADING
FOR BEIJING 12 DAYS AGO.
THE LAST GOODNIGHT FROM THE CO-
PILOT CAME AT 1:19AM, ABOUT 40
MINUTES AFTER TAKEOFF.
JUST AFTER THAT, COMMUNICATIONS
WERE TURNED OFF.
AT 2:15AM, THE PLANE TURNED
SHARPLY OFF COURSE.
A SATELLITE CARRIED ON PICKING
UP A SIGNAL FOR THE NEXT SEVEN
HOURS, THE PLANE HEADING
SOMEWHERE ALONG ONE OF THESE TWO
VAST CORRIDORS.
TODAY, SATELLITE IMAGES SHOWED
POTENTIAL DEBRIS CLOSE TO THE
SOUTHERN CORRIDOR, OVER 1,500
MILES WEST OF PERTH, IN
AUSTRALIA.
AT KUALA LUMPUR AIRPORT, THE
WORLD'S PRESS WAS HUNGRY FOR
EYEWITNESS CONFIRMATION, WHICH
NEVER CAME.
12 DAYS ON, THE RELATIVES OF 239
MISSING PEOPLE STILL LEFT IN THE
AGONIZING DARK.
THE JET MAY HAVE CRASHED INTO
THE OCEAN, BUT THE MYSTERY OF
WHAT REALLY HAPPENED COULD GO ON
FOR DAYS, MONTHS OR EVEN YEARS
>> Ifill: WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE
HUGE CHALLENGES IN THE SEARCH
FOR FLIGHT 370, LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
ARMY BRIGADIER GENERAL JEFFREY
SINCLAIR WAS FINED $20,000 TODAY
FOR SEXUAL MISCONDUCT, BUT GIVEN
NO JAIL TIME.
HE WAS INITIALLY ACCUSED OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT, AS THE PENTAGON
ACKNOWLEDGED THE PROBLEM IS
WIDESPREAD WITHIN THE MILITARY.
BUT THE CASE AGAINST SINCLAIR
CRUMBLED AND HE PLEAD GUDEILTY
TO LESSER CHARGES.
TODAY, HE APPEARED UPBEAT AFTER
LEAVING COURT AT FORT BRAGG,
NORTH CAROLINA.
>> IT'S BEEN A VERY DIFFICULT
TIME FOR ME AND MY FAMILY, IT
REALLY HAS.
THE SYSTEM WORKED.
I'VE ALWAYS BEEN PROUD OF MY
ARMY.
ALL I WANT TO DO NOW IS GO UP
NORTH AND HUG MY KIDS AND SEE MY
WIFE.
>> Ifill: SINCLAIR IS RETIRING
IMMEDIATELY, BUT A DISCIPLINARY
BOARD COULD YET REDUCE HIS RANK
AND HIS PENSION.
WE'LL TALK TO A REPORTER WHO'S
BEEN COVERING THE COURT MARTIAL,
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
IN A SEPARATE CASE, A MILITARY
JUDGE ACQUITTED A FORMER NAVAL
ACADEMY FOOTBALL PLAYER OF
SEXUAL ASSAULT.
JOSHUA TATE WAS ACCUSED OF
ATTACKING A FEMALE CLASSMATE AT
AN OFF-CAMPUS PARTY IN 2012.
TATE SAID THE SEX WAS
CONSENSUAL.
PROSECUTORS ARGUED THE WOMAN WAS
TOO DRUNK TO CONSENT.
TWO OTHER NAVY FOOTBALL PLAYERS
WERE CHARGED, BUT THE CHARGES
WERE LATER DROPPED.
INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL GANGS ARE
MAKING CALIFORNIA THEIR NUMBER
ONE AMERICAN TARGET FOR CYBER
AND OTHER CRIMES.
THE STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL
REPORTED TODAY CALIFORNIA LEADS
THE NATION IN HACK ATTACKS AND
IDENTITY THEFT.
THE REPORT ALSO ESTIMATED MORE
THAN $30-BILLION IS LAUNDERED
THROUGH THE STATE ECONOMY EVERY
YEAR.
WALL STREET REBOUNDED TODAY.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 108 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,331.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 11 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,319.
AND THE S&P 500 ADDED 11 TO
FINISH AT 1,872.
LEADERS ON BOTH SIDES OF THE
AISLE PAID TRIBUTE TO ROBERT
STRAUSS, WHO DIED WEDNESDAY.
FOR DECADES, HE WAS A MAJOR
WASHINGTON FIGURE, ADVISING
PRESIDENTS OF BOTH PARTIES.
>> Ifill: POWERBROKER,
PEACEMAKER, DEAL NEGOTIATOR.
ROBERT STRAUSS'S CAREER IN
POLITICS BEGAN AS A LAW STUDENT
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS WHERE
HE WORKED ON LYNDON JOHNSON'S
FIRST CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN.
BY 1972, HE'D BECOME CHA OIRF
THE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL
COMMITTEE AFTER GEORGE
MCGOVERN'S SHATTERING LOSS IN
THE PRESIDENT RACE THAT YEAR.
STRAUSS SET ABOUT REBUILDING THE
PARTY AND HELPED ENGINEER THE
1976 ELECTION OF JIMMY CARTER.
HE SERVED AS THE PRESIDENT'S
PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVE IN
MIDDLE EAST PEACE TALKS THAT LED
TO THE CAMP DAVID ACCORD.
BUT HE ALSO MOVED EASILY ACROSS
PARTY LINES AS A TRUSTED ADVISOR
IN THE REAGAN ADMINISTRATION AND
AS AMBASSADOR TO THE SOVIET
UNION UNDER PRESIDENT GEORGE H.
W. BUSH.
>> I'M OLD FASHIONED ENOUGH AS
MANY OF YOU KNOW I AM OLD
FASHIONED ENOUGH TO BELIEVE
STILL THAT POLITICS DOES END AT
THE WATERS EDGE AND I BELIEVE
THAT I CAN SERVE IN THE
TRADITION OF OTHERS WHO HAVE
MADE THAT STEP.
>> Ifill: IN 1992, STRAUSS
RETURNED TO DALLAS TO WORK AT
THE LAW FIRM HE CO-FOUNDED IN
1945 AND TO LECTURE AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS.
ROBERT STRAUSS DIED WEDNESDAY AT
HIS HOME IN WASHINGTON.
HE WAS 95 YEARS OLD.
THE KANSAS PREACHER WHO LED HIS
WESTBORO BAPTIST CHURCH ON A
FIERY CRUSADE AGAINST GAYS, HAS
DIED.
REVEREND FRED PHELPS ORGANIZED
ANTI-GAY PROTESTS NATIONWIDE,
EVEN PICKETING FUNERALS OF AIDS
VICTIMS AND SOLDIERS.
THAT LED TO A MAJOR FREE-SPEECH
RULING IN 2011, WHEN THE SUPREME
COURT BARRED GRIEVING FAMILIES
FROM SUING WESTBORO BAPTIST FOR
DAMAGES.
FRED PHELPS WAS 84 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR,
DEBATING THE U.S. RESPONSE TO
THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE, A NEW
LEAD IN THE SEARCH FOR THE
MISSING MALAYSIAN JET, TECH
START-UPS TACKLE THE CHALLENGES
OF AGING, SENTENCING DAY FOR A
GENERAL IN A HIGH PROFILE SEXUAL
ASSAULT CASE, PLUS, A LOOK AHEAD
AT THE RACE TO CONTROL THE U.S.
SENATE.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
UPPED THE ANTE AGAINST RUSSIA
OVER CRIMEA TODAY AND TRIGGERED
A RETURN SALVO FROM MOSCOW.
>> THE WORLD IS WATCHING WITH
GRAVE CONCERN AS RUSSIA HAS
POSITIONED ITS MILITARY IN A WAY
THAT COULD LEAD TO FURTHER
INCURSIONS.
>> Woodruff: THE WORDS OF
WARNING CAME ON THE WHITE HOUSE
LAWN AS THE PRESIDENT EXPANDED
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS FIRST
ANNOUNCED ON MONDAY.
>> I SIGNED A NEW EXECUTIVE
ORDER TODAY THAT GIVES US THE
AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE SANCTIONS ON
INDIVIDUALS AND SECTORS OF THE
RUSSIAN ECONOMY.
THIS IS NOT OUR PREFERRED
OUTCOME.
THESE SANCTIONS WOULD NOT ONLY
HOWEVER, RUSSIA MUST KNOW THAT
FURTHER ESCALATION WILL ONLY
ISOLATE IT FURTHER FROM THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: THE LATEST
SANCTIONS TARGET PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN'S CHIEF OF STAFF
AND WEALTHY SUPPORTERS.
AND, THEY QUICKLY PROVOKED A
REACTION.
WITHIN MINUTES, THE KREMLIN
ANNOUNCED SANCTIONS AGAINST NINE
U.S. OFFICIALS, INCLUDING
SENATORS JOHN McCAIN AND HARRY
REID AND HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN
BOEHNER.
THE RUSSIAN INNER CIRCLE ALSO
FACES NEW PENALTIES FROM
EUROPEAN LEADERS, WHO MET IN
BRUSSELS TODAY TO CONSIDER THEIR
NEXT PUNITIVE MEASURES.
IN BERLIN, GERMAN CHANCELLOR
ANGELA MERKEL ANNOUNCED THE G-8
MEETING THAT RUSSIA WAS
SCHEDULED TO HOST IN JUNE, HAS
BEEN SUSPENDED INDEFINITELY.
>> ( translated ): IT IS CLEAR
THAT AS LONG AS THE POLITICAL
CONDITIONS FOR THE G-8 ARE NON-
EXISTENT, LIKE RIGHT NOW, THE G-
8 DOES NOT EXIST ANYMORE EITHER
AS AN ORGANIZATION OR AS A
SUMMIT.
>> Woodruff: THE RUSSIANS
REMAINED UNDETERRED.
THE LOWER HOUSE OF PARLIAMENT
APPROVED THE TREATY TO ANNEX
CRIMEA WITH THE UPPER EXPECTED
TO GIVE FINAL APPROVAL TOMORROW.
AND FOREIGN MINISTER SERGEI
LAVROV SPOKE TO SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY IN A PHONE
CALL, MAKING CLEAR THERE'S NO
GOING BACK.
THE FOREIGN MINISTRY QUOTED HIM
AS SAYING:
LAVROV WARNED AGAIN THAT THE
KREMLIN HAS ITS EYES ON ETHNIC
RUSSIANS ELSEWHERE IN EASTERN
EUROPE.
>> ( translated ): WE WILL BE
DEFENDING THEIR INTERESTS OF
RUSSIANS ABROAD BY POLITICAL,
DIPLOMATIC AND LEGAL MEANS.
WE WILL BE INSISTING THAT THE
COUNTRIES, WHERE OUR COMPATRIOTS
FOUND THEMSELVES IN, RESPECT
THEIR RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS IN
FULL.
>> Woodruff: UKRAINE CHARGED
RUSSIA IS PREPARING FOR AN
INVASION OF MORE UKRAINIAN
TERRITORY BEYOND CRIMEA.
WHILE IN CRIMEA, PRO-RUSSIAN
FORCES STORMED AND SEIZED THREE
UKRAINIAN WARSHIPS IN
SEVASTOPOL.
THE CREW OF ONE VESSEL LEFT WITH
THEIR BELONGINGS, AS A RUSSIAN
FLAG FLEW FROM THE RIGGING.
MEANWHILE, IN WASHINGTON, DEBATE
IS GROWING ABOUT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S HANDLING OF THE
CRISIS.
SENATOR McCAIN AND OTHERS HAVE
ARGUED THE U.S. SHOULD HAVE
STOOD UP MORE FIRMLY TO RUSSIAN
PRESIDENT PUTIN.
FROM A DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE,
THERE'S CRITICISM THAT U.S.
ACTIONS PROVOKED THE RUSSIANS,
AS WHEN ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF
STATE VICTORIA NULAND VISITED
KIEV LAST DECEMBER, OFFERING
BREAD AND SUPPORT TO PROTESTERS.
SO, HOW HAS THE PRESIDENT
HANDLED THE UKRAINE CRISIS
OVERALL?
JOINING US TO DISCUSS THIS, IS
DAVID KRAMER, FORMER DEPUTY
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF STATE FOR
EUROPEAN AND EURASIAN AFFAIRS IN
THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S NOW PRESIDENT OF FREEDOM
HOUSE.
AND RICHARD BETTS, A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL IN
THE CARTER ADMINISTRATION.
HE'S THE DIRECTOR OF THE
INTERNATIONAL SECURITY POLICY
PROGRAM AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
WE START WITH YOU DAVID KRAMER.
LET'S TALK FIRST ABOUT THE
SANCTIONS IMPOSED TODAY ON TOP
OF WHAT WE HEARD ON MONDAY.
WILL THESE PUNISH RUSSIA AS MUCH
AS THE ADMINISTRATION SAYS?
>> I THINK THE STEP TAKEN TODAY
BY THE ADMINISTRATION WAS A VERY
POSITIVE ONE.
IT IS GOING TO HAVE AN IMPACT,
DEALING WITH BANKRUPTCY AT THE
FIRST BANK BEING AFFECTED BY
TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT IS A
POSITIVE STEP.
I THINK WE'LL SEE ANOTHER ROUND
IF MR. PUTIN DOESN'T SHOW
WILLINGNESS TO BACK DOWN.
IT ALSO WE WANT AFTER MORE
PEOPLE IN THE HIGHER LEVELS OF
THE RUSSIAN GOVERNMENT AS WELL
AS BUSINESSMEN AND I THINK THAT
IS PARTICULARLY IMPORTANT
BECAUSE PUTIN HAS THE CIRCLE
AROUND HIM OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE
BENEFITED PERSONAL ENRICHMENT
SINCE HE'S BEEN IN POWER AND
GOING AFTER THEM AND THE MONEY I
THINK IS WHAT IS GOING TO GET
THEIR ATTENTION.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU SEE
AS THE EFFECT OF THE SANCTIONS
WHEN YOU ADD TOGETHER MONDAY
WITH WHAT THEY DID TODAY,
RICHARD BETTS.
>> THE SANCTIONS CAN MAKE THE
RUSSIANS PAY A PRICE FOR WHAT
THEY DID, WHICH IS INEXCUSABLE
BUT UNDERSTANDABLE, I THINK, BUT
THEY'RE UNLIKELY TO CHANGE
RUSSIAN POLICY TO GET THEM OUT
OF CRIMEA OR TO TURN THEM AWAY
FROM THE STANCE PUTIN'S TAKEN ON
A MUCH LARGER SET OF ISSUES.
>> Reporter: WHY DO YOU
BELIEVE THEY'RE NOT LIKELY TO
HAVE AN EFFECT?
WELL, AS FAR AS I CAN SEE, THIS
IS MUCH MORE ABOUT POLITICS AND
BASIC NATIONAL INTEREST TO THE
RUSSIANS THAN ABOUT ECONOMICS,
AND MAYBE A PRICE THEY'RE MORE
WILLING TO PAY THAN NATO IS TO
KEEP UPPING THE ANTE.
THE EUROPEAN ALLIES WHO HAVE A
MUCH BIGGER STAKE IN ALL THIS
THAN WE DO ARE NOT AS ANXIOUS AS
WE ARE, IT APPEARS, TO PUT
MAXIMUM PRESSURE ON THE
RUSSIANS.
>> Woodruff: WELL, LET ME
BRING THAT BACK TO YOU, DAVID
KRAMER?
WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENT THAT THE
RUSSIANS DON'T REALLY CARE IF,
YES, THEY MAY BE HURT, SOME
ECONOMICS, BANK ACCOUNTS PINCHED
BUT THEY WILLTO DO?
>> THIS IS COMING AGAINST THE
BACKDROP OF WHERE THE RUSSIAN
RUBLE IS AT ITS ALL-TIME LOW,
STOCK MARKET DROPPED 20%,
INTEREST RATES ARE GOING UP, THE
RUSSIAN ECONOMY IS STAGNATING
AND PUTIN WILL HAVE SERIOUS
PROBLEMS TRYING TO MAINTAIN THE
STANDARDS OF LIVING IN RUSSIA.
IF THERE IS DIVERSIFICATION OF
ENERGY SUPPLIES TO EUROPE, THAT
WILL HAVE A BIG IMPACT SINCE
ENERGY IS SUCH A HUGE PART OF
THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY IT DEPENDS
ON FOR ITS GDP.
MY COLLEAGUE IS RIGHT, THE E.U.
DOES HAVE TO STEP UP.
IT DID MONDAY WITH SANCTIONS NOT
QUITE AS SEVERE AS THE ONES THE
U.S. ANNOUNCED.
WE'RE STILL WAITING FOR THE E.U.
TO TAKE ADDITIONAL STEPS AND IF
THEY DO I THINK THAT WILL GET
THE ATTENTION OF PEOPLE IN THE
KREMLIN.
>> Woodruff: RICHARD BETTS, IN
OTHER WORDS, RUSSIA IS IN A MORE
VULNERABLE ECONOMIC POSITION
THAN IT HAS BEEN AND THIS HAS TO
HURT.
WHAT ABOUT THAT?
>> IT CERTAINLY WILL HURT, BUT
THEY'VE TAKEN A VERY DRAMATIC
ACTION, A VERY DECISIVE ACTION
TO ABSORB CRIMEA, AND IT'S HARD
FOR ME TO BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE
GOING TO BACK OFF FROM THAT
BECAUSE THEY'RE SUFFERING PAIN
ECONOMICALLY.
SANCTIONS, VERY OFTEN, CAN MAKE
COUNTRIES PAY A PRICE FOR BAD
ACTIONS AND THEY MAY HELP TO
DETER THIRD COUNTRIES FROM
THINKING ABOUT DOING THE SAME
THING, BUT THERE AREN'T MANY
CASES IN WHICH ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS FORCED THEIR TARGETS
TO TURN AROUND AND CHANGE THE
POLICIES THEY ARE MEANT TO
CHANGE.
>> Woodruff: LET'S BROADEN
THIS OUT, DAVID KRAMER.
I KNOW YOU ALSO ARGUED EARLIER
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION SHOULD
HAVE MOVED MORE QUICKLY ON
SANCTIONS AND, IN SOME WAYS,
THEY SENT SIGNALS THAT
ENCOURAGED THE RUSSIANS TO DO
WHAT THEY DID.
BROADEN THIS OUT AND DESCRIBE
YOUR VIEW OF HOW THE
ADMINISTRATION HANDLED THIS BACK
FROM WHEN IT REALLY BEGAN.
>> WHEN RUSSIAN FORCES FIRST
WENT IN, I THOUGHT THE
ADMINISTRATION WAS TOO RETICENT.
IT WASN'T ACTIVE ENOUGH IN
MOVING FORWARD AND PUSHING
AGAINST THE RUSSIAN INVASION OF
UKRAINE.
I DO GIVE THE ADMINISTRATION
CREDIT.
I THINK THIS WEEK HAS BEEN A
GOOD WEEK.
IT HAS IMPOSED SERIOUS SANCTIONS
AGAINST INDIVIDUALS, ALSO THE
BANK.
I DO THINK THERE WILL BE
ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS.
I THINK THE ADMINISTRATION IS
CATCHING UP.
THE CHALLENGE WILL BE PUTIN IS
ALSO TRYING TO DEMONSTRATE HE'S
NOT BACKING DOWN.
THERE'S BEEN TALK ABOUT SOUTHERN
AND EASTERN PARTS OF UKRAINE
THERE'S CONCERN IN NEIGHBORING
MOLDOVA, THERE'S CONCERN EVEN IN
LATVIA, A MEMBER OF NATEO WITH A
FAIRLY LARGE RUSSIAN POPULATION.
IT'S NOT SAYING PUTIN WILL SEND
TROOPS INTO LATVIA OR MOLDOVA,
BUT HE CAN STIR UP TROUBLE.
WE NEED TO MAKE IT CLEAR THIS
BEHAVIOR WILL INCUR SERIOUS COST
AND HE NEEDS TO ASSESS BEFORE
TAKING FURTHER ACTION.
>> Woodruff: RICHARD BETTS,
WHAT DO YOU THINK THE
ADMINISTRATION'S POSTURE SHOULD
BE AND SHOULD HAVE BEEN?
>> WELL, I THINK THE ORIGINAL ME
STAKES WAS, ALONG WITH THE
EUROPEANS, INSISTING ON FORCING
UKRAINIANS TO CHOOSE BETWEEN THE
WEST AND MOSCOW.
OUR GIVEN HISTORY, GIVEN
UKRAINE'S POSITION, GIVEN THE
WAY THE RUSSIANS HAVE BEEN
TREATED IN THE PAST 20 YEARS AND
THEIR MORE RECENT DESIRE TO PUSH
BACK, FOR ALL THOSE REASONS, I
THINK IT WOULD HAVE MADE MUCH
MORE SENSE TO TRY TO STRIKE A
MIDDLE COURSE WHICH WOULD HAVE
AVOIDED ESCALATING THE
CONFRONTATION.
AT THIS POINT, I THINK, IDEALLY,
THE THING TO DO WHICH WOULD NOT
BE POPULAR FOR OBVIOUS REASONS
WOULD BE TO SEEK AN ARRANGEMENT
THAT GUARANTEED, IN EFFECT, THE
NEUTRALITY OF UKRAINE AND A
STATUS SOMETHING SIMILAR TO WHAT
FINLAND HAD DURING THE COLD WAR,
WHICH WAS MUCH CRITICIZED IN THE
WEST AT THE TIME BUT WHICH
SERVED THE FINNS PRETTY WELL IN
PRESERVING THEIR DOMESTIC
INDEPENDENCE AND DEMOCRACY WHILE
COMPROMISING FOREIGN POLICY.
>> Woodruff: DAVID KRAMER,
YOU'RE VIGOROUSLY SHAKING YOUR
HEAD.
>> I HOPE THE DAYS ARE OVER
WHERE U.S. RUSSIA DECIDE THE
FATE OF OTHER COUNTRIES WITHOUT
THE OTHER COUNTRIES PRESENT.
WE SHOULDN'T BE DECLARING THE
UKRAINE PNS.
THERE WILL BE ELECTIONS THE
25th, THE FUTURE GOVERNMENT
COULD DECIDE THAT BUT W WE
SHOULDN'T BE CLOSING DOORS IN
UKRAINE, NATO OR THE E.U., WE
SHOULD BE FOCUSING ON THE
CURRENT SITUATION WHICH IS THE
RESPONSIBILITY OF PRESIDENT
YANUKOVICH WHO BETRAYED HIS
COUNTRY AND FORFEITED HIS
LEGITIMACY AND RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE DEATHS OF HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE
BUT ALSO MR. PUTIN, THEY'RE THE
ONES PRINCIPALLY RESPONSIBLE,
NOT THE WEST.
>> Woodruff: DO I UNDERSTAND
YOU, RICHARD BETTS, SAYING THE
ADMINISTRATION SHOULDN'T BE MUCH
MORE ACTIVE THAN IT'S ALREADY
BEEN, THAT THE THRUST NOW SHOULD
BE TO BACK OFF, IF ANYTHING?
>> NO, WE HAVE TO IMPOSE
SANCTIONS.
WE HAVE TO MAKE THE RUSSIANS PAY
A PRICE TORE WHAT THEY DID BUT
WE ALSO HAVE TO TRY TO AVOID
ESCALATING THE CONFRONTATION TO
MORE DANGEROUS LEVELS.
THERE ARE STILL THINGS THAT
COULD HAPPEN THAT SEND THINGS
OUT OF CONTROL, THINGS NEITHER
MOSCOW NOR WASHINGTON CAN
CONTROL DIRECTLY.
FOR BETTER OR WORSE, GREAT
POWERS DO TRY TO SHAPE AND
CONSTRAIN THE ACTIONS OF OTHER
COUNTRIES THAT AFFECT THEIR
INTERESTS.
THE FACT THAT WE MAY HAVE
INTERESTS IN AVOIDING ESCALATION
THAT AFFECT OUR POLICY TOWARDS
UKRAINE I THINK IS QUITE
REASONABLE.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU WANT TO
REACT AND HOW MUCH MORE SHOULD
THE ADMINISTRATION BE PUSHING
RIGHT NOW?
>> I THINK THE ADMINISTRATION
HAS TO KEEP ADDITIONAL ROUND OF
SANCTIONS OPEN.
SANCTIONS ARE BOTH PUNITIVE AND
PSYCHOLOGICAL AND IF THE TARGET
OF THE SANCTIONS THINKS THAT
MORE SANCTIONS ARE COMING, THEN
THE TARGET MIGHT CHANGE HIS OR
HER BEHAVIOR AND I THINK THAT'S
THE CASE WITH RUSSIA.
IT'S VERY IMPORTANT WE CONTINUE
TO PUSH BACK.
THIS IS THE BIGGEST CHALLENGE
THAT I WOULD SAY WE HAVE FACED
SINCE THE END OF THE COLD WAR,
POSSIBLY GOING BACK EVEN DECADES
BEFORE THAT.
IT'S CRITICALLY IMPORTANT THAT
THE UNITED STATES TOGETHER WITH
THE EUROPEANS, CANADA WHICH HAS
A LARGE UKRAINIAN POPULATION, BY
THE WAY, SAY THIS IS
UNACCEPTABLE AND WE REALLY
SHOULD BE INSISTING ON STATUS
QUO ANTE, NOT SIMPLY AVOIDANCE
OF ESCALATION.
>> Woodruff: WE HEAR YOU BOTH.
DAVID KRAMER, RICHARD BETTS,
THANK YOU.
>> THANKS.
>> Ifill: THE SATELLITE IMAGES
OF POSSIBLE DEBRIS IN THE INDIAN
OCEAN CAPTURED INTERNATIONAL
ATTENTION TODAY AS THE HUNT FOR
THE MISSING MALAYSIAN AIRLINER
CONTINUED.
BUT EVEN WITH A MORE TARGETED
AREA TO FOCUS ON, THE CHALLENGES
ARE DAUNTING.
ANDY PASZTOR, AEROSPACE REPORTER
FOR "THE WALL STREET JOURNAL,"
JOINS US AGAIN.
ANDY, WHAT ARE THE CHALLENGES,
THE SPECIAL CHALLENGES FACING
THIS SEARCH?
>> THE FIRST CHALLENGE IS THE
WEATHER.
IT'S REALLY, REALLY LOUSY, SO
THE SEARCH PLANES AND SHIPS WILL
HAVE A VERY HARD TIME
IDENTIFYING AND LOCATING THE
SUSPECTED PIECE OF DEBRIS.
IT'S NOT CLEAR IT IS FROM THE
PLANE.
EVERYONE HOPES -- EVERYONE WHO'S
PART OF THE SEARCH CLEARLY HOPES
IT IS BUT THAT'S NOT CLEAR YET.
BUT EVEN IF IT IS, THE NEXT BIG
STEP IS A MUCH BIGGER CHALLENGE
AND THAT IS TO TRY AND FIGURE
OUT WHERE THE PLANE WOULD HAVE
GONE DOWN IN THE WATER IF
THERE'S PART OF THE DEBRIS HERE,
AND THAT'S SCIENCE.
YES, THERE ARE LOTS OF WAYS TO
LOOK AT THE WIND AND THE
CURRENTS AND THE WAVES, BUT IT'S
ALSO A LITTLE BIT OF AN ART, AND
IT'S EXTREMELY COMPLICATED AND
CAN BE VERY CONTROVERSIAL TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE TO LOOK FOR THE
WRECKAGE AND THE DEBRIS FIELD,
IS WHAT THEY CALL IT, UNDERNEATH
THE WATER.
>> Woodruff: WELL, AND THIS IS
PARTICULARLY DEEP WATER.
THIS IS A VERY, VERY REMOTE AREA
OF THE INDIAN OCEAN WHICH
HAMPERS THE SEARCH EVEN MORE.
>> THAT'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT, AND
THE DEPTH IS A PROBLEM AND IF
YOU LOOK BACK AT SPREAGHS
CRASHES OF AIRCRAFT A INTO
WATER, YOU LEARN THEY OFTEN
BREAK INTO MANY RELATIVELY SMALL
PIECES WHICH ARE HARD TO FIND
AND THE CURRENTS CAN MOVE THEM
100 OR 200 MILES FROM THE POINT
OF IMPACT WHERE THE PLANE WENT
INTO THE WATER BUT, MORE
IMPORTANTLY FOR THIS
INVESTIGATION, I THINK WE SHOULD
BE LOOKING AT HOW THE DECISIONS
WILL BE MADE.
WHEN THE AIR FRANCE JETLINER
WENT INTO THE ATLANTIC OCEAN IN
2009, THERE WAS A HUGE FIGHT
BETWEEN THE AIRLINE, THE
MANUFACTURER OF THE AIRPLANE AND
FRENCH INVESTIGATOR ABOUT WHERE
TO LOOK FOR THE WRECKAGE.
TOOK THEM TWO YEARS, THEY
FINALLY FOUND IT, BUT IT WAS
EXTREMELY CONTROVERSIAL AND I
THINK CONSIDERING THE
MULTI-NATIONAL MAKEUP OF THIS
SEARCH, WE'RE UNFORTUNATELY
LIKELY TO SEE SOME ARGUMENTS
ABOUT WHERE TO LOOK, HOW TO LOOK
AND HOW TO CONTINUE IF -- IF --
WE HAVE SOME DEBRIS.
>> Ifill: FEELS AS IF WE HAVE
BEEN SEEING THAT ALREADY.
WE HAVE SEEN JURISDICTIONAL
DISPUTES, QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHETHER MALAYSIA WAS STEPPING
UP.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT WAS MADE TODAY
BY THE AUSTRALIAN PRIME
MINISTER, CHINA HAS BEEN
INVOLVED, DOZENS OF COUNTRIES
AND NOW THERE'S A NORWEGIAN SHIP
IN THE REGION.
IS THAT WHAT'S ADDING TO THE
DELAY?
IT'S NOW BEEN 12 DAYS.
>> CONFUSION AND DELAY,
DEFINITELY THERE'S A FRICTION
WITHIN THE MALAYSIAN GOVERNMENT
BETWEEN THE CIVILIAN AND
MILITARY SIDES AND HAS BEEN ON
HOW MUCH INFORMATION TO RELEASE.
PEOPLE WHO LOOKED AT THIS WOULD
SAY THE MALAYSIANS WERE SLOW IN
RELEASING INFORMATION THAT THE
PLANE HAS FLOWN FOR AN
ADDITIONAL 6.5 HOURS AFTER IT
DISAPPEARED OFF RADAR.
MALAYSIAN GOVERNMENT SAYS THEY
WERE CORROBORATING THE
INFORMATION AND WANTED TO MAKE
SURE EVERYTHING WAS CORRECT BUT,
IN FACT, SOME FOLKS, INCLUDING
THE SATELLITE PROVIDER OF THE
INFORMATION, GOT SO CONCERNED
THEY WENT TO THE BRITISH
GOVERNMENT, AS ONE OF OUR
STORIES INDICATES, AND BASICALLY
SAID TO THE BRITISH GOVERNMENT,
THIS INFORMATION HAS TO BECOME
PUBLIC, WE'RE COUNTING YOU KNOW
TO DO IT.
I THINK THE SITUATION IS BETTER
IN MALAYSIA, I THINK THEY'RE
MORE WILLING TO ACCEPT HELP.
THEY REALIZE THE SCOPE AND SIZE
OF THIS INVESTIGATION AND THE
SEARCH AND HOW MUCH SCRUTINY
THEY'RE UNDER, BUT, STILL,
YOU'RE GOING TO SEE THOSE KINDS
OF POINTS OF FRICTION BETWEEN
COUNTRIES INEVITABLY.
>> Ifill: ARE THERE ALSO
PROBLEMS OR CHALLENGES IN THE
QUALITY OF THE SATELLITE
TECHNOLOGY ITSELF?
>> WELL, THE IMAGE -- THE
SIGNALS WE'RE TALKING ABOUT, WE
WERE NOT TALKING ABOUT IMAGES AT
THIS POINT OF THE DEBRIS.
WE WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
SATELLITE SIGNALS THAT SHOW
WHERE THE PLANE MAY HAVE GONE.
THE IMAGES THEMSELVES, I THINK,
ARE BETTER THAN WE HAVE SEEN.
I THINK THAT THE SATELLITE
COMPANY THAT PROVIDES THE
IMAGES, DIGITAL GLOBE, A PRIVATE
COMPANY WHICH SELLS IMAGERY TO
THE U.S. GOVERNMENT, THEY'RE
ACTUALLY ABLE TO DO MUCH MORE
PRECISE IMAGES THAT LOOK MUCH
MORE CLEAR THAN THEY DO OFTEN
THAN THE ONES WE'VE SEEN
PUBLICLY.
SO I THINK THAT'S A PLUS, BUT,
TO ME, IT'S CLEAR THAT NOBODY IS
COMPLETELY CONVINCED THAT THIS
IS PART OF MALAYSIAN FLIGHT 370,
THE PIECE THAT'S FLOATING IN THE
INDIAN OCEAN NOW.
>> Ifill: TO WHAT DEGREE IS
THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
INWOVLD IN -- INVOLVED IN THIS
SEARCH AS COMPARED TO OTHER
COUNTRIES IN THE REGION?
>> I THINK WE'RE DEEPLY
INVOLVED.
IN THE BEGINNING IT WAS OUR AIR
SAFETY FOLKS FROM THE FAA AND
THE NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
SAFETY BOARD WHO CONTRIBUTED AND
HELPED DECIPHER WHERE THE PLANE
MAY HAVE GONE.
AT THIS POINT, IT'S TURNING INTO
MORE OF A CRIMINAL PROBE AND THE
F.B.I. AND OTHER U.S. NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCIES I THINK ARE
VERY DEEPLY INVOLVED, BUT THE
MALAYSIANS, OF COURSE, WANT TO
SAY THAT THIS IS THEIR
INVESTIGATION, AND THAT'S PART
OF THE PRESSURE AND PART OF THE
DYNAMIC THAT, I THINK, WILL
CONTINUE THROUGHOUT.
IT'S A MALAYSIAN INVESTIGATION,
BUT THE WHOLE WORLD IS WATCHING
THEM, AND ALL THESE OTHER
COUNTRIES ARE BASICALLY
BREATHING DOWN THEIR NECKS TO
MAKE SURE THAT EVERYTHING IS
DONE RIGHT AS THOSE COUNTRIES
THINK IT SHOULD BE.
SO THIS DYNAMIC IS GOING TO
CONTINUE AND IT MAY GET WORSE IF
THERE ARE BIG DECISIONS THAT
NEED TO BE MADE ABOUT WHERE TO
SEARCH, WHO WILL PAY FOR THE
RESEARCH AND THOSE KIND OF
QUESTIONS.
>> Ifill: HAS ANYBODY
SUGGESTED TO YOU OR YOUR
COLLEAGUES WHO ARE REPORTING
THAT IN FACT DEBRIS FROM THIS
PLANE MAY NEVER BE FOUND?
>> I THINK THAT THAT'S CERTAINLY
A POSSIBILITY.
SOME PEOPLE WOULD SAY IT'S A
STRONG POSSIBILITY.
MANY EXPERTS WHO KNOW ABOUT
SEARCHES SAY THE AREA IS TO VAST
AND THE PIECES MAY BE SO SMALL
AND THE DEPTH OF THE WATER MAY
BE SO SIGNIFICANT THAT, IN FACT,
WE'LL NEVER FIND -- WE MAY NEVER
FIND THE WRECKAGE AND, OF
COURSE, THE OTHER PROBLEM IS,
EVEN IF WE DO FIND THE WRECKAGE,
FIGURING OUT WHY THIS WAS DONE
IS A WHOLE ANOTHER QUESTION
ABOUT WHAT THE BLACK BOXES SHOW.
>> Ifill: WE'LL GET TO THE
BOTTOM OF THIS PIECE OF
INFORMATION POSSIBLY WITHIN THE
NEXT 24 HOURS.
ANDY PASZTOR OF THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL."
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: MOST OF US THINK OF
START-UP COMPANIES AS PRIMARILY
FOCUSED ON YOUNGER CUSTOMERS FOR
THEIR BUSINESS, BUT SOME SILICON
VALLEY ENTREPRENEURS SEE
OPPORTUNITIES WITH A VERY
DIFFERENT DEMOGRAPHIC.
THEY ARE DESIGNING INNOVATIVE
PRODUCTS FOR SENIORS AND THEIR
CAREGIVERS.
THE NEWSHOUR'S CAT WISE HAS OUR
REPORT.
>> Reporter: 81-YEAR-OLD BUD
GLICKMAN HAS LIVED IN HIS SAN
FRANCISCO APARTMENT FOR NEARLY
TWO DECADES.
HE WANTS TO STAY THERE AS LONG
AS POSSIBLE BUT KNOWS HE NEEDS
SOME HELP.
>> I'VE HAD SOME MEMORY
PROBLEMS, SHORT-TERM MEMORY
PROBLEMS.
I'VE TRIPPED A COUPLE OF TIMES.
I CERTAINLY DON'T WANT PEOPLE TO
BE OVERLY CONCERNED.
ON THE OTHER HAND, IF SOMETHING
REALLY HAPPENED, I WOULD WANT
THEIR SUPPORT.
>> Reporter: GLICKMANS FAMILY
IS VERY SUPPORTIVE, AND THEY
WANT HIM TO REMAIN INDEPENDENT
IN HIS OWN HOME, BUT THEY ALSO
WANT TO KEEP AN EYE ON HIM AND
MAKE SURE HE IS KEEPING UP WITH
HIDAILS Y ROUTINES WITHOUT BEING
TOO INTRUSIVE.
THE SOLUTION?
THESE SMALL, SLEEK MOTION
SENSORS PLACED THROUGHOUT THE
APARTMENT.
THEY WIRELESSLY TRANSMIT
INFORMATION TO A WEB-BASED APP
THAT HIS SON, DAVID, CHECKS
REGULARLY.
>> FOR MY DAD, THIS MORNING, I
CAN SEE HE IS EATING AND
DRINKING, HAS BEEN GETTING OUT
OF THE HOUSE, PROBABLY WALKED
THE DOG.
BUT I NOTICED FOR MEDICATIONS
THE FACE IS NOT GREEN; IT'S
ACTUALLY RED.
AND WHAT MEANS IS, HE MISSED THE
TIME HE'S SUPPOSED TO TAKE IT.
>> Reporter: DAVID GLICKMAN
ISN'T JUST A USER OF THE NEW
PRODUCT CALLED LIVELY WHICH
HELPS HIM STAY CONNECTED TO HIS
DAD, HE'S ALSO A CO-FOUNDER OF
THE COMPANY.
>> PEOPLE ARE SPENDING MONEY.
FAMILIES ARE SPENDING MONEY,
CARING FOR THEIR ADULTS.
AND WE DIDN'T SEE ANYBODY REALLY
KIND OF CREATING BEAUTIFUL
PRODUCTS-- SUPER SIMPLE, EASY TO
USE AND AFFORDABLE-- USING
TODAY'S TECHNOLOGY, NOT
TECHNOLOGY TEN YEARS AGO.
>> Reporter: LIVELY IS PART OF A
NEW WAVE OF TECH STARTUPS THAT
ARE DEVELOPING PRODUCTS FOR
SENIORS AND THEIR CAREGIVERS.
IT'S A MULTIBILLION-DOLLAR
MARKET, WHICH UNTIL NOW HAS BEEN
LARGELY IGNORED BY SILICON
VALLEY ENTREPRENEURS.
>> A LOT OF THE PAST PRODUCTS
FOR SENIORS HAVE BEEN WHAT WE
CALL BIG, BEIGE AND BORING.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THOSE
LEADING THE CHARGE FOR MORE
INNOVATION IN AGING IS KATY
FIKE, A 35-YEAR-OLD FORMER
INVESTMENT BANKER WHO HAS A
Ph.D. IN GERONTOLOGY.
SHE'S THE CO-FOUNDER OF AGING
2.0, WHICH PROVIDES MENTORING
FOR STARTUPS, INCLUDING LIVELY,
WHICH TARGET THE 50 AND OLDER
DEMOGRAPHIC.
>> WE SEE REAL POTENTIAL TO
BRING IN NEW TECHNOLOGY FOLKS,
BRING IN INVESTORS, BRING IN
DESIGNERS, BECAUSE I THINK THE
MORE SMART BRAINS WE HAVE
THINKING ABOUT AND LOOKING FOR
NEW SOLUTIONS, THE BETTER WE'LL
ALL BE.
>> Reporter: MANY OF THE
STARTUPS, LIKE ONE CALLED BRAIN
AID, ARE TRYING TO KEEP OLDER
ADULTS ENGAGED AND LIVING
INDEPENDENTLY LONGER.
SOME, LIKE SABI, ARE REDESIGNING
PRODUCTS USED BY SENIORS LIKE
CANES AND PILL BOXES; OTHERS ARE
CREATING NEW APPS FOR
CAREGIVERS.
IT'S STILL TOO EARLY TO OWKN
WHICH ONES WILL ACTUALLY MAKE A
DENT IN THE AGING SERVICES
MARKET, WHICH HAS BEEN LONG BEEN
DEFINED BY A CERTAIN WELL-KNOWN
COMMERCIAL.
>> I'VE FALLEN, AND I CANT GET
UP.
>> Reporter: BUT STEPHEN
JOHNSTON, FIKES' AGING 2.0 CO-
FOUNDER AND A FORMER MOBILE
INDUSTRY EXECUTIVE, SAYS THE NEW
PLAYERS WANT TO CONNECT WITH
SENIORS IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
>> THREE-QUARTERS OF PEOPLE OVER
60 ALREADY HAVE A CELL PHONE.
IF YOU LOOK AT THE USAGE OF
SOCIAL MEDIA, FACEBOOK AND
TWITTER, THE BIGGEST DEMOGRAPHIC
GROWING IS ALWAYS THE 55-65, AND
INCREASINGLY OVER 65, AS WELL.
AND EVERYDAY WE'RE SEEING MORE
AND MORE PEOPLE FIGURE OUT WAYS
TO CONNECT THIS POPULATION.
>> Reporter: FIKE AND JOHNSTON
DECIDED TO BASE THEIR STARTUP
INCUBATOR IN A SLIGHTLY
UNORTHODOX LOCATION -- AT A
SENIOR CENTER.
THE INSTITUTE ON AGING IS A BAY
AREA NONPROFIT WHICH PROVIDES A
WIDE RANGE OF SERVICES FOR
THOUSANDS OF ELDERLY CLIENTS
EACH YEAR.
BRINGING THE ENTREPRENEURS AND
SENIORS TOGETHER UNDER ONE ROOF
HAS LED TO A LOT OF
COLLABORATIONS AND HAS BEEN
MEANINGFUL FOR THE INSTITUTE'S
AGING CLIENTS, ACCORDING TO
CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER CINDY
KAUFFMAN.
>> AS SOMEONE GETS OLDER, WE
HAVE A TENDENCY TO DO FOR THEM.
AND WE HAVE THEIR BEST INTERESTS
AT HEART, BUT WE TAKE AWAY THEIR
DIGNITY, WE TAKE AWAY THEIR
PURPOSE.
SO, PART OF WHAT THIS AGING 2.0,
AND INSTITUTE ON AGING DOES IS,
WE GET THEIR OPINION, AND THEN
WE HAVE A CONVERSATION AS TO
WHAT'S AVAILABLE, WHAT'S NOT
AVAILABLE.
BUT IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT.
I WANT MY OPINION TO BE HEARD,
AND IT DOESN'T CHANGE AS WE GET
OLDER.
>> Reporter: AND AGING 2.0'S
FIKE SAYS THE STARTUPS HAVE
BENEFITED, AS WELL.
>> WE WANTED TO IMMERSE THE
ENTREPRENEURS IN WHO THEY'RE
DESIGNING FOR.
WE DIDN'T WANT THEM TO HAVE TO
GUESS ABOUT WHAT'S NEEDED OR
ABOUT WHAT WOULD WORK.
THERE'S ALL THESE FOLKS THAT ARE
REALLY LIVING EVERY SINGLE DAY
EITHER AS THE OLDER ADULT
THEMSELVES OR THE CARE
PROVIDERS.
THEY KNOW THE NEEDS.
WE JUST NEED TO PAIR THEM WITH
PEOPLE WHO KNOW HOW TO MAKE THE
SOLUTIONS.
>> Reporter: ONE OF THOSE
ENTREPRENEURS IS 26-YEAR-OLD J.
CONNOLY, THE FOUNDER OF LIFT-
HERO, A NEW RIDE-SHARING SERVICE
WHICH EMPLOYS OFF-DUTY E.M.T.s
AND OTHER MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS
AS DRIVERS.
PICK-UP REQUESTS CAN BE MADE
ONLINE OR OVER THE PHONE
LIKE MANY OF HIS FELLOW
FOUNDERS, CONNOLY SAYS PERSONAL
EXPERIENCES WITH AN AGING FAMILY
MEMBER INSPIRED HIM TO START HIS
COMPANY.
>> THE SEED WAS PLANTED REALLY
WHEN MY OWN GRANDMOTHER, IT TOOK
HER A LONG TIME TO FIND A
TRUSTWORTHY DRIVER.
AND THAT'S THE PROCESS WE'RE
TRYING TO FACILITATE IS, MAKE
THAT MUCH EASIER FOR SOMEONE TO
FIND A DRIVER THAT THEY TRUST
AND GET WHERE THEY NEED TO GO.
>> Reporter: ON A RECENT
AFTERNOON, CONNOLY AND A GROUP
OF OTHER YOUNG ENTREPRENEURS
GATHERED AT AGING 2.0 TO HEAR AN
UNUSUAL PERSPECTIVE ON PRODUCT
DESIGN.
>> I HOPE YOU KNOW THAT YOU'LL
BE ABLE TO DEVELOP STRATEGIES SO
THAT YOU CAN REALLY DESIGN FOR
OUR NEEDS AND NOT DESIGN FOR
SOMETHING THAT YOU THINK IS
CLEVER AND WE'LL NEVER USE.
>> Reporter: JUNE FISHER, AN 81-
YEAR-OLD RETIRED PHYSICIAN AND
PRODUCT DESIGN LECTURER AT
STANFORD, IS NOW AGING 2.0'S
CHIEF ELDER EXECUTIVE.
AMONG THE FIRST PRODUCTS SHE'D
LIKE TO SEE REDESIGNED ARE HER
WALKING STICKS, WHICH SHE THINKS
ARE UGLY.
SHE APPRECIATES BEING ASKED TO
GIVE HER ADVICE AND BEING TAKEN
SERIOUSLY.
>> I WANT THINGS THAT MAKE MY
EVERYDAY LIFE, MY MUNDANE LIFE,
EASIER, AND THAT THEY'RE
AESTHETICALLY APPROPRIATE.
AND I DON'T WANT TO BE LABELED
AS AN "OLD LADY" AND BEING
PAMPERED AND CATERED TO, BUT NOT
REALLY ADDRESSING MY NEEDS TO
PARTICIPATE IN EVERYDAY LIFE.
>> Reporter: F THEORIR PART,
AGING 2.0 CO-FOUNDERS FIKE AND
JOHNSTON REFUTE ANY SKEPTICISM
THAT TECHNOLOGY CAN TRULY
IMPROVE SENIORS' QUALITY OF
LIFE.
>> I REALLY DON'T SEE TECHNOLOGY
REPLACING WHAT HUMANS DO.
I THINK IT FILLS THE TIME WHEN
SOMEONE WOULD HAVE BEEN ALONE,
IT FILLS THE TIME WHEN YOU
PROBABLY COULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN
THERE, AND I THINK IT ALSO
CHANGES AND IMPROVES THE QUALITY
OF WHEN YOU ARE TOGETHER, YOU
KNOW.
IF YOU'VE BEEN HAVING AN ONGOING
INTERACTIONS REMOTELY, THAT,
WHEN YOU'RE TOGETHER, YOU'RE
MORE IN SYNC, YOU CAN KIND OF
CATCH UP IN A MORE MEANINGFUL
WAY.
>> Reporter: THE NUMBER OF
SENIORS IN THE U.S. IS EXPECTED
TO DOUBLE BY 2050 TO MORE THAN
85 MILLION, A STATISTIC VERY
MUCH ON THE MINDS OF THE NEW
AGING ENTREPRENEURS.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE A PHOTO
GALLERY OF PRODUCTS DESIGNED TO
HELP SENIORS "AGE IN PLACE,"
CREATED BY STUDENTS AS PART OF A
COMPETITION SPONSORED BY
STANFORD UNIVERSITY AND AGING
2.0.
THAT'S ON OUR HOMEPAGE.
>> Woodruff: A MILITARY JUDGED
TODAY RULED THAT ARMY BRIGADIER
GENERAL JEFFREY SINCLAIR WILL
SERVE NO JAIL TIME.
SINCLAIR IS BELIEVED TO BE THE
HIGHEST RANKING U.S. MILITARY
OFFICER EVER COURTS-MARTIALED ON
SEXUAL ASSAULT CHARGES.
THOSE CHARGES WERE DROPPED AFTER
THE PROSECUTION'S CASE FELL
APART AND THE GENERAL PLEAD
GUILTY TO HAVING INAPPROPRIATE
RELATIONSHIPS WITH THREE
SUBORDINATES.
REPORTER PAUL WOOLVERTON HAS
BEEN COVERING THE CASE FOR "THE
FAYETTEVILLE OBSERVER" AND JOINS
US NOW TO TELL US MORE.
SO, PAUL WOOLVERTON, WELCOME.
THIS CASE STARTED OUT AS
SOMETHING VERY DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT IT ENDED UP.
WE MIND US WHAT THE ORIGINAL
CASE LOOKED LIKE.
>> ORIGINALLY, IT WAS A SEXUAL
ASSAULT CASE.
THE GENERAL WAS ACCUSED OF
FORCING HIS ACCUSER, A CAPTAIN
UNDER HIS COMMAND, OF GIVING HIM
ORAL SEX AT TIMES WHEN SHE
DIDN'T WANT TO, AND THIS WAS IN
THE WAR ZONE IN AFGHANISTAN.
>> Woodruff: AND WHAT HAPPENED
TO THAT CASE OVER TIME?
>> WELL, THE GENERAL FOUGHT IT
VERY HARD AND HIS LEGAL TEAM
FOUGHT VERY HARD AND THEY PUSHED
AND PUSHED TO GET THE SEXUAL
ASSAULT CHARGES DISMISSED ON THE
ALLEGATION THAT THE ACCUSER
BASICALLY THEY SAID SHE WAS
LYING.
THE PROSECUTORS, OF COURSE, KEPT
AT IT OVER TIME, BUT IN THE END
THEY ARRANGED TO PLEA BARGAIN,
AND THE SEXUAL ASSAULT CHARGES
WERE DISMISSED, BUT THAT STILL
LEFT OTHER CHARGES INCLUDING
ADULTERY AND MISCONDUCT AND
MALTREATMENT OF THE ACCUSER.
>> Woodruff: EXPLAIN WHAT
HAPPENED TO THE PROSECUTION'S
CASE BECAUSE, AS YOU POINT OUT,
THERE WERE SOME VERY SERIOUS
CHARGES LEVELED, ORIGINALLY,
AGAINST GENERAL SINCLAIR.
AS TIME WENT BY, IT SAME CLEAR
SOME OF WHAT THE ACCUSER WAS
SAYING WASN'T BORNE OUT.
>> THE ACCUSER STANDS BY HER
POSITION THE SEXUAL ASSAULT TOOK
PLACE.
THE QUESTION I THINK WAS WHETHER
IT COULD BE PROVED IN COURT.
I GUESS LATE LAST YEAR, THEY
WERE STILL NEGOTIATING TO TRY TO
GET TO A PLEA AND THE ACCUSER
WAS OPPOSED TO THE PLEA.
BUT THEN THE CONVENING
AUTHORITY, THE GENERAL IN CHARGE
OF SAYING WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A
COURT MARTIAL, HE SAID, WE'RE
NOT GOING TO DO A PLEA DEAL.
SO THERE WAS A LETTER FROM A
LAWYER REPRESENTING THE ACCUSER
THAT SAID, A, SHE OPPOSES A PLEA
DEAL BUT, ALSO, THE BROADER
SPECTER OF CONGRESS CHANGING
LAWS REGARDING HOW THE MILITARY
TREATS SEXUAL ASSAULT AND IF
THEY DROP THIS CASE AGAINST
GENERAL SINCLAIR, IT WOULD FORCE
CONGRESS OR LEAD CONGRESS TO
PUNISH THE ARMY POLITICALLY BY
TAKING POWER AWAY FROM THE
COURT'S MARTIAL WHICH BECAME A
CASE OF UNLAWFUL COMMAND
INFLUENCE ON HOW TO PROCEED OVER
CASES IN THE MILITARY.
THEY CAN'T HAVE OUTSIDE
INFLUENCES DECIDE JUSTICE, AND
THAT LED UP TO HAVING THE PLEA
BARGAIN TAKE PLACE IN THE END.
>> Woodruff: ESSENTIALLY WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IS IT LOOKED AS IF
THERE HAD BEEN POLITICAL
CONSIDERATIONS AND THAT TOOK A
CASE THAT WAS ALREADY ON SHAKY
GROUND AND WEAKENED IT EVEN
FURTHER.
>> EXACTLY, YEAH.
WHETHER IT'S ON SHAKY GROUND,
WHETHER THE DEFENSE OR
PROSECUTION WOULD DISPUTE THAT,
THERE WAS DISCUSSIONS WITHIN
PROSECUTION CIRCLES TO TAKE THE
DEAL BUT THE HIGHER-UPS DID NOT
WANT TO TAKE THE DEAL.
GOING IN THE DEFENSE WAS VERY
OPTIMISTIC THEY WOULD WIN IF THE
JURY HEARD ALL OF THE EVIDENCE
OF SEXUAL ASSAULT, BUT, YOU
KNOW, THEY TOOK THE PLEA.
>> Woodruff: THE ACCUSER, OF
COURSE, HASN'T BEEN IDENTIFIED
PUBLICLY.
WAS THERE A CONSENSUS ABOUT --
IN COURT ABOUT THE STRENGTH OF
HER ACCUSATIONS AND THE STRENGTH
OF THE GENERAL'S DEFENSE?
>> WELL, I SAW HER TESTIFY IN
COURT, AND SHE WAS VERY
PERSUASIVE AND VERY EMOTIONAL
ABOUT HOW HE ASSAULTED
HOW IT AFFECTED HER LIFE.
YOU KNOW, THE RELATIONSHIP
STARTED CONSENSUAL BACK IN 2009
BUT THEN, OVER TIME, SHE SAID
SHE WANTED TO LEAVE HIM AND FELT
SHE COULDN'T BECAUSE HE WAS HER
BOSS ESSENTIALLY AND HE COULD
DAMAGE HER MILITARY CAREER, AND
SHE ALSO CLAIMED THAT HE HAD
THREATENED TO KILL HER AND HER
FAMILY IF SHE EXPOSED THEIR
RELATIONSHIP.
BUT THE DEFENSE COUNTERED THAT
HER PRIVATE E-MAILS AND JOURNALS
AND OTHER SUCH MATERIALS,
MESSAGES, SHOW THAT SHE WASN'T
SO, I GUESS, WANTING TO LEAVE
HIM, MORE SO THAT SHE -- THEY
CONTEND SHE WANTED HIM TO LEAVE
HIS WIFE AND MARRY HER.
>> Woodruff: SO WHEN THE END
OF IT, WHEN THIS FINALLY CAME
DOWN TO THE JUDGE DECIDING ON
WHAT HE WAS GUILTY OF, WHICH WAS
MUCH LESS THAN WHAT WAS
ORIGINALLY CHARGED, AND THE
PENALTY, WHAT WAS THE REACTION
IN THE COURTROOM AND IN THE
COMMUNITY?
>> IN THE COMMUNITY, I THINK A
LOT OF PEOPLE WERE SURPRISED.
HE'S NOT GETTING ANY ACTIVE
PRISON TIME.
THE PLEA BARGAIN ALLOWED FOR AS
MUCH AS 18 MONTHS OF
INCARCERATION.
IN THE END, THE JUDGE DIDN'T DO
THAT.
HE'S GOING TO BE REPRIMANDED.
HE WILL ALLOWED TO RETIRE AND,
WHEN HE RETIRES, HE PROBABLY
WILL BE DEMOTED TO LIEUTENANT
COLONEL WHICH WILL AFFECT HIS
RETIREMENT.
HE ALSO HAS TO PAY A $20,000
FINE AND PAY $4,100 IN
RESTITUTION FOR TRAVEL EXPENSES
HE ACCUSER
WHEN THEY WERE STILL HAVING
THEIR RELATIONSHIP.
I TALKED TO SEVERAL PEOPLE WHO
THOUGHT HE WOULD GET ACTIVE TIME
AND EVEN THE DEFENSE TEAM SAID
THEY WERE STUNNED AT THE
SENTENCING.
>> Woodruff: AS YOU POINT OUT,
ALL THIS IS TAKING PLACE DURING
A TIME WHEN THERE IS A LOT OF
NOT ONLY DISCUSSION ABOUT THE
EXTENT -- THE AMOUNT OF SEXUAL,
AT LEAST ACCUSATIONS OF SEXUAL
ASSAULT IN THE MILITARY, THE
DEBATE RIGHT HERE IN WASHINGTON
ABOUT WHETHER THESE KINDS OF
CHARGES SHOULD BE TAKEN OUT OF
THE CHAIN OF COMMAND, WOULD YOU
SAY THAT -- I MEAN, YOU HAVE
BEEN TALKING TO A LOT OF FOLKS
IN THE MILITARY, ARE THEY COMING
AWAY THERE THIS CASE SAYING THIS
ARGUES FOR THAT OR NOT?
>> PEOPLE WHO I TALK TO OVER
TIME WITHIN THE MILITARY LEGAL
CIRCLES, GENERALLY A LOT OF THEM
ARE OPPOSED TO TAKING COMMAND
AUTHORITY AWAY FROM THE GENERALS
AND OTHER COMMANDERS IN TERMS OF
DECIDING WHO GETS
COURT-MARTIALED AND WHETHER OR
NOT TO OVERTURN A CONVICTION
SHOULD A JURY CONVICT SOMEBODY.
BUT THERE'S A LOT OF PRESSURE
FROM THE OUTSIDE IN SOME OTHER
AREAS OF THE LEGAL COMMUNITY
THAT SAY OTHER COUNTRIES DO IT
DIFFERENTLY, THAT THEY HAVE
INDEPENDENT PROSECUTORS.
IT'S INTERESTING THAT THE LEAD
DEFENSE LAWYER FOR GENERAL
SINCLAIR FAVORS THE BILL THAT
WOULD REMOVE COMMAND AUTHORITY
FROM DECIDING COURTS MARTIAL.
WHETHER THIS HAPPENS NOW, I
IMAGINE THIS WILL PROVIDE FODDER
AS CONGRESS GOES FORWARD AS THEY
DECIDE WHETHER TO TAKE THE
AUTHORITY AWAY.
>> Woodruff: PAUL WOOLVERTON.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: AS THIS YEAR'S MID-
TERM ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
INTENSIFY, DEMOCRATS ARE GROWING
NERVOUS THAT GEOGRAPHY, POLICY
AND POLITICS MAY COST THEM
CONTROL OF THE SENATE.
HISTORY USUALLY PREDICTS
MIDTERM SETBACKS FOR THE PARTY
IN POWER.
AND WITH THE HELP OF SOME STRONG
CHALLENGERS, REPUBLICANS ARE
HOPING TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THAT
FACT.
IN PUBLIC, PRESINT ODEBAMA OWNS
THE BULLY PULPIT, AND DEMOCRATS
OWN A MAJORITY IN THE SENATE.
TODAY, THE PRESIDENT FOCUSED ON
THE ECONOMY IN A PUBLIC SPEECH
IN ORLANDO.
>> WHEN WOMEN SUCCEED, AMERICA
SUCCEEDS.
>> Ifill: BUT TONIGHT, HE WILL
BE FULFILLING ANOTHER MISSION:
RAISING MONEY FOR DEMOCRATS AT A
PRIVATE FLORIDA FUNDRAISER AT A
POLITICALLY PERILOUS TIME.
WARNING SIGNS ARE POPPING UP
EVERYWHERE FOR DEMOCRATS.
LAST WEEK, REPUBLICAN DAVID
JOLLY WON A SPECIAL HOUSE
ELECTION IN THE SUNSHINE STATE
THAT DEMOCRATS HAD HOPED TO USE
TO BUILD MOMENTUM.
RED FLAGS ARE ALSO POPPING FOR
DEMOCRATS IN THE SENATE, WHERE
REPUBLICANS NEED ONLY SIX SEATS
TO TAKE THE MAJORITY THIS FALL.
PART OF THE PROBLEM: DEMOCRATS
ARE STRUGGLING IN SEVEN STATES
THEY NOW HOLD THAT REPUBLICAN
MITT ROMNEY WON IN 2012.
NOW, THE G.O.P HAS EXTENDED ITS
TARGET MAP TO INCLUDE A HANDFUL
OF TYPICALLY DEMOCRATIC-LEANING
STATES.
FOR DEMOCRATS, THE BEST CHANCES
TO TURN THE TIDE ON REPUBLICAN
TURF ARE IN GEORGIA AND IN
KENTUCKY, THE HOME OF SENATE
MINORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL.
BUT DEMOCRATS RECENTLY ACQUIRED
TWO NEW WORRIES.
IN COLORADO, WHERE REPUBLICANS
LANDED A TOP-TIER RECRUIT WHEN
CONGRESSMAN CORY GARDNER
ANNOUNCED HE WOULD CHALLENGE
DEMOCRAT MARK UDALL.
AND IN NEW HAMPSHIRE, WHERE
FORMER MASSACHUSETTS SENATOR
SCOTT BROWN HAS MOVED ACROSS THE
BORDER TO EXPLORE A CHALLENGE TO
INCUMBENT DEMOCRAT JEANNE
SHAHEEN.
WE EXPLORE THE CONTOURS OF THE
MIDTERM ELECTION LANDSCAPE WITH
STU ROTHENBERG OF THE ROTHENBERG
POLITICAL REPORT AND ROLL CALL
NEWSPAPER AND AMY WALTER,
NATIONAL EDITOR OF THE COOK
POLITICAL REPORT.
WHY ARE DEMOCRATS SO WORRIED,
AMY?
>> YOU LAID IT DOWN POLITICALLY,
IT'S THE MAP IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT THING THAT MAKES THEM
NERVOUS AND THE POLITICAL
ENVIRONMENT.
WHEN THE PRESIDENT'S APPROVAL
RATING IS SITTING AT 42 OR 43%,
EVEN IF YOU'RE IN A RELATIVELY
DEMOCRATIC OR COMPETITE STIVATE,
THAT'S A TOUGH PLACE TO BE AS A
DEMOCRAT.
IF YOU ARE IN A RED STATE, THAT
IS DISMAL.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING?
>> THERE'S A DYNAMIC IN MID-TERM
ELECTIONS THERE'S A REASON WHY
THE PRESIDENT'S PARTY WON HOUSE
SEATS ONLY TWICE IN THE LAST 100
YEARS IN MID-TERMS, IS THE
VOTERS EXPRESS DISSATISFACTION
WITH THE PRESIDENT AND THE PARTY
CANDIDATES SUFFER.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE STATES
THAT ROMNEY WON IN THE 2012
ELECTION WHERE THERE ARE NOW
DEMOCRATIC SEATS ENDANGERED,
SOME OF THEM ARE DEMOCRATIC
RETIREMENTS, THAT'S
SOUTH DAKOTA, MONTANA,
WEST VIRGINIA, AND SOME OF THEM
IN DANGER OF INCUMBENTS,
NORTH CAROLINA, ALASKA, ARKANSAS
AND LOUISIANA.
LET'S JUST UNPACK THAT FOR A
MOMENT, AMY.
WHICH OF THOSE STATES ARE YOU
WATCHING?
>> WELL, THE OPEN SEATS ARE THE
TOUGHEST FOR THE DEMOCRATS
MOSTLY BECAUSE THESE ARE THE
SEATS THAT HAVE MOVED OVER TO
THE REPUBLICANS AT LEAST AT THE
FEDERAL LEVEL FOR QUITE SOME
TIME.
THE ONLY REASON THEY STAYED IN
DEMOCRATIC HANDS IS BECAUSE THEY
HAD DEMOCRATIC INCUMBENTS WHO
WERE REALLY CONNECTED TO THOSE
STATES.
>> Ifill: LIKE MONTANA.
AND WEST VIRGINIA WITH J.
ROCKEFELLER.
WITH THOSE FOLKS DONE, ALMOST
IMPOSSIBLE FOR DEMOCRATS TO KEEP
THE SEATS.
THE OTHER STATES ARE PLACES
WHERE THE DEMOCRATS, THEY HAVE
BEEN FIGHTING AGAINST THE TIDE,
IN SOME CASES FOR QUITE SOME
TIME AND HOLDING ON, LIKE
LOUISIANA WITH MARY LANDRIEU,
AND OTHERS THEY'RE A BRAND-NEW
SENATOR IN A STATE THAT HAS
TRADITIONALLY BEEN REPUBLICAN
LIKE MARK BEGGAGE IN ALASKA
WHERE HIS FATHER WAS A SENATOR
THERE.
>> Ifill: OR NORTH CAROLINA.
NORTH CAROLINA IS A LITTLE
DIFFERENT IN THAT IT'S NOT QUITE
AS RED AS THE OTHER STATES LIKE
ARKANSAS, ALASKA AND LOUISIANA.
IT IS A COMPETITIVE STATE.
HE WON IT IN 2008 AND LOST IT
NARROWLY IN 2012.
YOU HAVE STATES WHERE THE
LANDSCAPE IS BETTER OR THE
DEMOCRATIC INCUMBENT HAS A NAME
TO ALLOW HIM TO RESIST AGAINST A
REPUBLICAN WAVE.
>> Ifill: LIKE ARKANSAS.
YES, OR ALASKA.
THESE ARE DEMOCRATS WHO HAVE
DEEP CONNECTIONS TO THE STATE
AND THEY NEED TO TRY TO LOCALIZE
THE CAMPAIGNS SO VOTERS IN MOST
STATES SAY IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT
BARACK OBAMA, IT'S NOT ABOUT THE
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENT, IT'S ABOUT
MY SENATOR MARY LANDRIEU OR MARK
PRYOR.
THE DEMOCRATS ARTRYIE NG TO DO
THAT AND WILL BE DIFFICULT TO
SUCCEED.
>> Ifill: IT'S EVEN DIFFICULT
IN AREAS WHERE THESE ARE STATES
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA WON N THE
LAST ELECTION, THEY'RE TWO
DEMOCRATIC RETIREMENTS, ONE IN
MICHIGAN AND ONE IN IOWA AND
ENDANGERED ENCUMENTS IN TWO
OTHER STATES.
WE MENTIONED THEM IN THE SENATE
IN COLORADO AND IN
NEW HAMPSHIRE.
HOW DOES THAT --
>> I THINK THE THING TO NOTE
ABOUT THE FOUR STATES IS WE WERE
WATCHING THREE AS SWING STATES
IN THE PRESIDENTIAL RACE THE
LAST TIME.
YES, THE PRESIDENT WON THEM.
NEW HAMPSHIRE 52, IOWA 52,
COLORADO 51, SO THESE WERE
NARROW WINS.
SO I THINK THAT MEANS THE
LANDSCAPE ISN'T AS GOOD FOR
DEMOCRATS AS DEMOCRATS MAY BE
THINKING.
>> Ifill: GO AHEAD.
AND, YOU KNOW, AT THE END OF
THE DAY, THIS COMES DOWN TO
MOOD.
ANGRY PEOPLE VOTE.
PEOPLE WHO ARE SORT OF
COMPLACENT OR PEOPLE WHO ARE
GENERALLY HAPPY DON'T ALWAYS GO
OUT AND VOTE.
IT'S THE MOST MOTIVATED PEOPLE
ESPECIAL IN THE MID TERM THAT GO
OUT AND VOTE.
SO THE PRESIDENT WHEN YOU LOOK
AT HIS NATIONAL NUMBER AT 42 OR
43%, YOU HAVE TO TAKE IT AND SAY
WHAT WOULD THAT MEAN IN A STATE
HE ALREADY LOST BY TEN POINTS OR
A STATE HE NARROWLY CARRIED?
THAT MEANS IN THAT STATE HE IS
LOWER THAN THE NATIONAL NUMBER.
IT IS VERY TOUGH FOR A DEMOCRAT
TO OVERPERFORM THE PRESIDENT BY
THAT BIG A PERCENTAGE.
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH A DRAG IN
THE BIG PICTURE IS THE
HEALTHCARE LAW AND HOW MUCH
WOULD HE HAVE HAD PROBLEMS
WHETHER THIS LAW EXISTED OR NOT?
>> I THINK IT IS A DRAG IN PART
BECAUSE REPUBLICANS ARE
ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT IT AND
ENERGIZED.
>> Ifill: THEY'RE ANGRIER.
YES, IT WILL AFFECT
REPUBLICAN TURNOUT.
ATTEND OF THE DAY, WHEN WE TALK
ABOUT THE FINAL FEW WEEKS AND
FEW MONTHS TO HAVE THE CAMPAIGN,
INDEPENDENT VOTERS MAKE UP THE
MONTH, IT'S MORE GENERALLY ABOUT
MOOD.
HOW'S THE ECONOMY DOING, ARE
THERE NEW JOBS CREATED, HOW HAS
THE PRESIDENT PERFORMED?
FOR THEM, I THINK THE ACA HAS
ALREADY BAKED INTO THIS.
>> EXCEPT IF THERE ARE MORE
PROBLEMS WITH THE ACA AND THAT'S
REALLY THE QUESTION BECAUSE
SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER COULD
BRING -- THAT'S TRADITIONALLY
WHEN INSURANCE COMPANIES BRING
YOU YOUR INSURANCE PREMIUMS IF
YOU'RE A SMALL BUSINESS FOR THE
NEXT YEAR.
IF THINGS GO UP IN SEPTEMBER AND
OCTOBER RIGHT BEFORE THE
ELECTION, NOT REALLY A GOOD
SIGN.
>> Ifill: YOU SEE THE BIG PUSH
TO GET PEOPLE ENROLLED.
THERE IS THERE A PLUS TO THAT OR
RUNNING PLACE?
THE BOTTOM LINE WILL BE, I
THINK, HEALTHCARE REFORM SUCCESS
POLITICALLY AT LEAST IN THE
SHORT TERM WOULD BE BASED ON HOW
PEOPLE WHO HAVE CURRENT
INSURANCE FEEL ABOUT IT.
DO THEY FEEL LIKE THEIR OWN
HEALTH INSURANCE HAS BEEN IN ANY
WAY COMPROMISED BY THIS NEW
HEALTHCARE LAW.
IF IT HAS, THEN THEY'LL TAKE IT
OUT ON THE PRESIDENT.
IF IT HASN'T, THEY'RE NOT GOING
TO USE IT AS A MOTIVATING
FACTOR.
>> Ifill: WE HAVE BEEN
WATCHING SENATOR HARRY REID GO
AGAINST THE KOCH BROTHERS, THE
FINANCE BROTHERS DUO.
HOW MUCH DOES THAT INDICATE
MONEY IS A BIG PROBLEM AND
REPUBLICANS ARE THE ONES WHO GOT
IT?
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S THAT THE
REPUBLICANS HAVE ALL THE CASH.
I THINK IT'S AN ATTEMPT TO
REDEFINE THE ELECTION TO SAY --
THE PROBLEM IS IT'S REALLY
INSIDE BASEBALL.
THE AVERAGE VOTER DOESN'T SAY,
WOW, WHO'S CONTRIBUTING TO WHO.
SO I THINK IT'S A GENERAL
DEMOCRATIC FRUSTRATION HERE.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THESE RACES,
IT'S NOT AS THOUGH THE
REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES HAVE A LOT
MORE MONEY THAN THE DEMOCRATIC
SENATE CANDIDATES, THAT'S NOT
THE CASE.
>> WHEN YOU LOOK AT HOW MUCH
THEY'RE SPENDING IN SOME OF
THESE STATES WE JUST TALKED
ABOUT.
>> Ifill: THAT'S TRUE.
N NORTH CAROLINA, THEIR
SUPER PAC UP AGAINST THE
DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY PAC, IT'S IN
SOME CASES THREE-TO-ONE,
FOUR-TO-ONE DIFFERENCE IN THE
NUMBER OF ADS RUN.
BUT I AGREE IT MAY NOT STAY THAT
WAY.
>> AND REMEMBER THE REPUBLICAN
SUPER PAC SO BIG LAST TIME,
CROSSROADS, SEEM NOT TO BE
ACTIVE AT THIS POINT.
THEY WILL BE LATER IN THE CYCLE.
SO FAR, THE KOCH BROTHERS HAS
BEEN CARRYING THE BALL FOR THE
REPUBLICANS.
>> Ifill: DOESN'T MATTER, THE
PRESIDENT IS THE DRAG.
>> EVERYBODY WILL HAVE MORE
MONEY ON N THESE RACES.
BUT, NO, THE PRESIDENT IS A MUCH
BIGGER PROBLEM.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Ifill: OKAY.
AMY WALTER, THE COOK POLITICAL
REPORT, STU ROTHENBERG, THE
ROTHENBERG POLITICAL REPORT.
THANKS.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA TRADED
SANCTIONS AS THE CRISIS OVER
UKRAINE ESCALATED AGAIN.
THE SOUTHERN INDIAN OCEAN BECAME
THE FOCUS OF THE HUNT FOR A
MALAYSIAN JETLINER AFTER
SATELLITE IMAGES SHOWED POSSIBLE
DEBRIS AND ARMY BRIGADIER
GENERAL JEFFREY SINCLAIR WAS
FINED $20,000 FOR SEXUAL
MISCONDUCT, BUT HE AVOIDED ANY
JAIL TE.IM
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, SCIENTISTS ARE
WATCHING WHAT HAPPENS AS A GAS
CLOUD ABOUT THREE TIMES THE MASS
OF EARTH BARRELS TOWARD THE
BLACK HOLE AT THE CENTER OF OUR
GALAXY.
ON OUR SCIENCE PAGE, RESEARCHERS
DESCRIBE WHAT THEY MIGHT SEE AND
WONDER WILL THE BLACK HOLE EAT
THE CLOUD THIS YEAR?
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: AND AGAIN, TO OUR
HONOR ROLL OF AMERICAN SERVICE
PERSONNEL KILLED IN THE
AFGHANISTAN CONFLICT.
WE ADD THEM AS THEIR DEATHS ARE
MADE OFFICIAL AND PHOTOGRAPHS
BECOME AVAILABLE.
HERE, IN SILENCE, ARE SIX MORE.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, MARGARET WARNER'S
LATEST REPORT FROM UKRAINE ON
ESCALATING TENSIONS IN THE
EASTERN PART OF THE COUNTRY.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING WITH MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS AMONG
OTHERS.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.